{\rtf1\ansi\deff0
{\fonttbl{\f0 Calibri;}}
\fs24
\b Project Synopsis: Anomaly Detection in Exam Hall \b0\par
\par
\b 1. Introduction \b0\par
This project applies deep learning and computer vision to identify misconduct in exam halls (e.g., copying or cheating) by analyzing video files and generating actionable evidence for review.\par
\par
\b 2. Objectives \b0\par
- Automatically detect anomalous behaviors during examinations.\par
- Provide evidence snapshots and structured logs for auditing.\par
- Offer a reproducible workflow for analysis, review, and model improvement.\par
\par
\b 3. Scope \b0\par
The system processes exam hall videos, classifies behaviors using a CNN, and outputs anomaly snapshots, JSON reports, and performance summaries. A review interface is available to browse results; training scripts enable continuous model enhancement.\par
\par
\b 4. Methodology \b0\par
- Input: Exam hall video files.\par
- Preprocessing: Frame extraction, resizing/normalization.\par
- Model: Convolutional Neural Network for behavior classification.\par
- Detection: Frames/segments flagged as normal or anomalous.\par
- Output: Timestamped snapshots, anomaly logs (`anomaly_report.json`), metrics (`classification_report.txt`), and confusion matrix.\par
\par
\b 5. System Components \b0\par
- `video_analyzer.py`: Runs inference on videos, generates snapshots and reports.\par
- `model_trainer.py`: Trains/updates `.h5` weights and evaluation artifacts.\par
- `streamlit_app.py`: Review interface to browse anomalies and analytics.\par
- Artifacts: `best_classroom_model.h5`, `classroom_behavior_model.h5`, `class_indices.json`, `anomaly_snapshots/`, `confusion_matrix.png`.\par
\par
\b 6. Dataset & Training \b0\par
Labeled footage (normal vs. copying/cheating) is used to train and validate the CNN. Performance is tracked using accuracy, precision, recall, F1-score, and confusion matrices.\par
\par
\b 7. Implementation Workflow \b0\par
1) Analyze video: `run_project.bat analyze --input your_video.mp4`.\par
2) Review evidence: Check `anomaly_snapshots/` and `anomaly_report.json`.\par
3) Browse analytics: `run_project.bat app`.\par
4) Retrain model: `run_project.bat train --epochs 10`.\par
\par
\b 8. Requirements \b0\par
- Python 3.8+ and virtual environment (`classroom_monitor_env`).\par
- Libraries: TensorFlow/Keras, OpenCV, Streamlit (optional), NumPy, Pandas, Matplotlib.\par
- Video input; GPU recommended for performance.\par
\par
\b 9. Applications \b0\par
- Examination monitoring and post-exam auditing.\par
- Institutional integrity checks and incident documentation.\par
\par
\b 10. Benefits \b0\par
- Objective detection and clear evidence artifacts.\par
- Scalable and reproducible pipeline for multiple exam sessions.\par
\par
\b 11. Limitations & Considerations \b0\par
- Accuracy depends on labeled data quality and coverage of behaviors.\par
- Privacy and compliance must be managed for video usage.\par
\par
\b 12. Future Enhancements \b0\par
- Expanded behavior taxonomy and better temporal modeling.\par
- Privacy-preserving features (face blurring, role-based access).\par
- Batch processing and per-exam dashboards; containerized deployment.\par
\par
\b 13. Conclusion \b0\par
The system provides a practical approach to exam hall anomaly detection, combining CNN-based classification with evidence generation and review tooling, aimed at strengthening academic integrity and simplifying incident analysis.\par
}